Network Remote Control for TiVo Series 3+
=========================================

:Author:  William McBrine <wmcbrine@gmail.com>
:Version: 0.32
:Date:    December 21, 2020

An on-screen virtual remote control that can control your TiVo over the 
network. It works with the Series 3 or any later TiVo model.

Python 2.6 or later (including 3.x) is required, as well as Tkinter 
(normally part of Python's standard library) or GTK. Linux and macOS 
users should have what they need already; Windows users should visit 
https://python.org/ . The remote has also been tested on Windows CE and 
other platforms.

This program uses the network remote control interface first made public 
by TCF user Omikron in this thread:

https://tivocommunity.com/tivo-vb/showthread.php?t=392385

which has doubled as the support thread for the app, and, previously, 
the only place where it was distributed. Nowadays, the latest version 
can be found at:

https://wmcbrine.com/tivo/

Released under the GPL 2+.


Quick Start
-----------

By default, the TiVo's network remote service is disabled. To enable it, 
go into the "Messages and Settings" menu, then "Settings", "Remote, 
CableCARD, & Devices", and finally "Network Remote Control", and check 
"Enabled".

Once Python is installed on your system, you should be able to just 
extract the Network Remote archive anywhere, and click on "Network 
Remote.pyw", or run it from the command line. (Mac users may have to use 
the context menu if starting it from the GUI.) No installation is 
required. Network Remote.pyw is the only required file, although 
zeroconf.py is also needed if you want to use the "modern" style of TiVo 
autodetection, which I recommend.

If it's working properly, you should within a few seconds see a list of 
available TiVos from which to select, if any were found, along with a 
box to enter the address manually, in case it wasn't autodetected. 
Alternatively, you can directly specify the TiVo's address on the 
command line (see below).

Zeroconf-based autodetection needs to send and recieve UDP on port 5353. 
Old-style autodetection sends and recieves TCP and UDP on port 2190, and 
recieves TCP on a randomly-chosen port. The core remote functionality 
will work as long as it can make outgoing TCP connections to port 31339.


Buttons
-------

The function of most buttons should be obvious, but a few may need 
explanation:

Zoom
    Also known as "Aspect" or "Window" on pre-Premiere remotes; they all
    use the same code.

Aspt
    This displays a menu that lets you send discrete codes to select
    each mode. It's the only way to access the TiVo's hidden stretch
    mode, and it's useful in HME apps that do video streaming, but don't
    act on the Zoom IRCODE.

CC
    Closed-caption menu; now uses discrete commands for this purpose
    instead of the Info-Down-etc. sequence used in older versions.

Vid
    A menu of options to change the output video mode. Note that these
    actually change the options set in Settings > Video > Video Output
    Format. They may or may not change the current video mode! Also, the
    list of codes has not been updated to include 1080p modes. Use with
    caution.

Mcr
    A menu of macros (multi-code sequences). "Clock" sends
    Select-Play-Select-9-Select, to toggle the on-screen clock. "SPS30"
    sends Select-Play-Select-3-0-Select, to change the behavior of the
    Advance button between the default mode and 30-second skip. These
    should be used during playback of a recording, not LiveTV.

Adv
    Advance, also known as "the button with an arrow pointing to a
    line". This is your 30-second skip/slip or catch-up button, also
    used to enter the dash for OTA channels.

A/B/C/D
    The multicolored buttons found on the latest TiVo remotes.

Kbd
    Sends the text in the "Text:" window (see below). Note that you can
    just hit "Enter" on your keyboard when the text field is in focus to
    accomplish the same thing (not to be confused with "Enter" on the
    remote).

Standby
    Puts the TiVo into standby mode, or pulls it out of it (into LiveTV)
    if it already was. This function is available as a discrete remote
    code for universal remotes, but isn't on the standard peanuts.

Quit
    Exits the remote program; doesn't send anything to the TiVo.


Keyboard Shortcuts
------------------

Most buttons have keyboard shortcuts, which can be much more convenient 
to use than mousing around and clicking. Of course these don't work when 
the text input window has focus. Numbers, letters (A/B/C/D buttons only; 
not for direct text input) and arrow keys are what you'd expect (use 
uppercase for A/B/C/D); other shortcuts are::

    TiVo          t, F1, or F11
    Zoom          z or w
    Info          i or F10
    LiveTV        l or F2
    Back          b
    Guide         g or F3
    Select        Enter/Return
    Thumbs Down   d or F6
    Thumbs Up     u or F5
    Channel Up    PgUp or F7
    Channel Down  PgDn or F8
    Record        r or F9
    Play          p
    Reverse       v or [
    Pause         Spacebar
    Forward       f or ]
    Replay        x or -
    Slow          o
    Adv           s or =
    Clear         Esc
    Enter         e or .
    Aspt          a (cycles instead of showing menu)
    CC            c (toggles instead of showing menu)
    Quit          q

As a bonus, only available via keyboard shortcut::

    Stop          `
    Toggle graphical button labels      G
    Switch between Landscape/Portrait   L

Some of these are taken from the keys used with TiVo's HME simulator 
from the Java SDK. The function keys are what the TiVo recognizes from 
an attached USB keyboard.

Buttons with no corresponding keyboard shortcuts: Mcr, Vid and Standby.


Text Entry
----------

For the TiVo's on-screen keyboards, instead of moving the cursor around 
manually to select each letter, you can type your text here, and the 
program will enter it for you. The typical case now is to use the TiVo's 
new direct text entry method, which is selected by setting "Cols:" to 
zero (the default). This now works on the Series 3, HD and Premiere, and 
even works in HME apps if they've been updated to support it.

For apps that still require the old method, set "Cols:" to the number of 
columns in the keyboard, and ensure that the selector is on 'A' when you 
start sending the text. If these aren't set correctly, the results are 
unpredicatble.

The new method should be used when possible, since it's faster and 
reduces the risk of arrowing into the wrong place. Where it's not 
supported, only spaces and numbers will come through in this mode.


Command-Line Options
--------------------

-v, --version     Print the version and exit.

-h, --help        Print help and exit.

-k, --keys        Print the list of keyboard shortcuts and exit.

-z, --nozeroconf  Don't try the Zeroconf-based method of detecting TiVos.

-l, --landscape   Move the second half of the button display to a
                  position to the right of the first half, instead of
                  below it. The default layout is similar to a real TiVo
                  peanut, which makes for a very tall, narrow window --
                  too tall for some environments.

-g, --graphics    Force "graphical" labels for some buttons. Normally
                  they'll be used automatically on suitable platforms.

-p, --plaintext   Force plain text labels for all buttons. If both -g
                  and -p are specified, the last one on the command
                  line takes precedence.

-c, --nocolor     Don't use color to highlight any buttons.

-t, --force-tk    Use the Tkinter GUI even if GTK is available.

-2, --force-gtk2  Use the GTK 2 (PyGTK) GUI even if GTK 3 is available.

-o, --old-tk      Use the pre-ttk Tkinter code even if ttk is available.

Any other command-line option is treated as the IP address (name or 
numeric) of the TiVo to connect to. Connection is automatic on startup, 
and disconnection on exit. May include port (defaults to 31339).


Changes
-------

0.32
    Added "Find remote" and "Netflix" under "Misc" (formerly "Mcr.").

    The button previously labelled "Skip" in non-graphical mode is now
    "Adv" (advance), since TiVo started calling the "D" button "Skip",
    and then introduced a dedicated button with that label.

    Made compatible with Python 3.x; dropped support for Python 2.5.

    Kludges to allow running in Dark Mode under macOS (sadly, it doesn't
    actually *use* Dark Mode, since the background can't be changed).

    Timeout get_namever() after two seconds -- often, when the TiVo
    isn't responding to the tivo-remote MDNS, it isn't answering on
    2190, either. That meant long waits on manual connections.

    README reformatted as reStructuredText.

    New icon for macOS, based on the Bolt.

0.31
    Added the new "Back" button, as found on Roamio remotes (sends
    "IRCODE BACK"). This also has the keyboard shortcut 'b'.

    New menu button "Mcr." (Macros) provides the functions formerly done
    by the "Clock" and (in 0.4 through 0.26) "SPS30" buttons (although
    "Vid." actually takes Clock's space in the grid.) Let me know if
    there are any other macro sequences I should include here.

    New menu button "Vid." (Video Mode) to send the direct video
    switching codes -- see above for details. I don't recommend actually
    using this, but I include it for completeness.

    Keyboard shortcuts are now bound to all buttons in Tkinter (as they
    had already been in Gtk), eliminating the problem of clicking on a
    button and losing keyboard shortcuts. Also, the shortcuts work with
    menu buttons now.

    Version 0.14 of zeroconf.py -- see the pyzeroconf project for
    details.

    New icon, reflecting new layout (as well as OS X 10.10).

0.30
    Zeroconf announcements without an "swversion" field no longer cause
    errors. (These could be returned by rproxy in some cases.)

    Expanded the function that skips over proxied TiVos to include those
    in the form "Proxy(xx.xx.xx.xx)", and not just "Proxy(tivoname)".

    New icon for OS X -- includes the new ttk look, and uses a Roamio as
    the background (and is also a smaller file).

0.29
    The Aspect and CC buttons now pull down menus with all the options
    for each, instead of cycling through. The "Aspect" label has been
    shortened to "Aspt." to fit. The keyboard shortcuts still cycle as
    before.

    On startup, the TiVo selector is now always displayed (unless an
    address is given on the command line), even when only a single TiVo
    is found; and the entry box is included after the list of TiVos, so
    you can always enter an address that's not on the list. These
    changes can help in some cases where the TiVos' announcements aren't
    making it through the network, or for connecting to things (like
    rproxy without Zeroconf) that aren't announcing.

    Ports other than 31339 can now be specified, on the command line, in
    the entry window, etc. (via colon notation, e.g. "1.2.3.4:5678"),
    and are now recognized via Zeroconf. Although no TiVos use ports
    other than 31339, this feature can be useful with rproxy (q.v.).
    When no port is given, 31339 is the default.

    For Tivos proxied via rproxy (and assuming that the proxy is
    announcing via Zeroconf), the entry for the original TiVo is now
    automatically removed from the list of TiVos available to connect to
    at startup (since you can't connect to it anyway).

    The Mac app bundle now uses the default Python (2.7) instead of 2.6.
    This is necessary to get the benefits of ttk, but it drops support
    for OS X 10.6 in the resulting app. (You can still use the non-app
    version.) Let me know if this is an issue.

0.28
    The Mac app bundle is now signed (for compatibility with
    Gatekeeper), and sandboxed -- its only permissions are network
    access.

    GTK 3+ and ttk widgets for Tkinter are now supported, with fallbacks
    to the old APIs and options to select them. ttk often looks quite a
    bit nicer than the old Tk version. (ttk requires Python 2.7, AFAIK.)

    Color highlights are now used for a few keys (A/B/C/D, Thumbs, Rec,
    Pause), where available (can be disabled by option).

    The "graphical" button labels are now the default for most
    environments, selectable via option and, now, togglable at runtime
    by pressing "G" (capitalized -- lowercase "g" is still Guide).

    Landscape mode can also now be toggled at runtime, by pressing "L"
    (capitalized -- lowercase "l" is still LiveTV). In addition, at
    startup, if the remote is too "tall" for the screen, it will switch
    to landscape mode automatically.

    Restored shortcut keys for Aspect ("a") and CC ("c").

    More robust Zeroconf.

0.27
    Enhancements for the Mac -- now builds a proper app bundle.

    The "Aspect" button is back, but it does something different from
    "Zoom" (which is also still present); see the "Buttons" section for
    details. To make a place for this, I've dropped the SPS30S macro
    button. (Since the setting is preserved across reboots now, it's
    less needed.)

    Some buttons now have an alternate, "graphical" rendering, via
    Unicode glyphs, selected by the "-g" command-line option. (This is
    on by default with the Mac app version.)

    Bug: The Thumbs Down shortcut 'd' was overridden by the one for the
    'D' button. Fix: The A/B/C/D shortcuts are now capital (shifted)
    keys.

    Various minor fixes, reorganization, and doc changes.

    The program's name is now standardized as "Network Remote Control
    for TiVo", or "Network Remote" for short.

    Dropped support for Python 2.3 and 2.4.

0.26
    In some Tkinter installations, with versions 0.24 and 0.25, pressing
    the space bar (to pause) would also invoke the default button widget
    response of the space bar selecting the button (in this case, the
    "Enter" button). First reported by "mjh".

0.25
    The closed caption toggle is no longer a macro, but instead uses
    IRCODE CC_ON/OFF to change the mode directly. (The program assumes
    that captions are off at startup; if not, it just takes an extra
    button press to synchronize with the TiVo's state.)

0.24
    Back to using the KEYBOARD command on the Premiere (only), as it
    turns out it's not quite equivalent after all. This new mode allows
    direct input of mixed case (instead of uppercasing everything, as
    previously, and still on pre-Premiere units), and of all standard
    keyboard symbols -- very close to the behavior of a Slide remote or
    other USB keyboard.

    The rearrangement of widget creation (?) in 0.20 effectively broke
    the setting of focus to the label in Tk -- since tabbing no longer
    went directly to the text entry field. Especially noticeable on
    Macs, where there's no button highlighting. So, I now use
    focus_button, as in Gtk. Reported by "MelSmith".

    Changed the "SPS30", "Clock", and "CC" buttons from hardwired
    functions to ones built from a tuple, "MACROS". Perhaps these will
    be easier to redefine?

0.23
    Direct text input for all supported TiVos, now based on the IRCODE
    command instead of the KEYBOARD command (which is equivalent except
    for being limited to the Premiere). This even works in HME apps now
    (if they're updated to recognize it), so this mode is now the
    default. Thanks to CT McCurdy for discovering this.

0.22
    The new keyboard shortcut for the 'C' button conflicted with the one
    to toggle closed captions. Maybe closed caption toggling is too
    dangerous to have a keyboard shortcut anyway.

    Attempt to reconnect automatically.

    Report more (hopefully all) errors to the GUI instead of the
    console.

    Expand elements of small windows in Tk, as with the main window.

    Some restructuring of the code, hopefully easier to follow.

    Finally added a README.txt.

0.21
    Use a single window instead of creating and destroying multiple
    windows (eliminates the losing focus problem). Note that this causes
    some weirdness with Tkinter: if you manually resize the selector
    window, the new size is retained for the full window, otherwise the
    full window resizes itself properly.

0.20
    A, B, C and D buttons for the Premiere; new layout with less excess
    space; function key shortcuts; "Aspect" becomes "Zoom".

0.19
    Space and numbers weren't working in direct text input.

0.18
    Direct text input for the Premiere; minor Zeroconf fixes; support
    for Australian/NZ TiVos and the Premiere in non-Zeroconf
    autodection.

0.17
    Zeroconf-based autodetection. (This was the last version for 14
    months, until the release of the Premiere motivated me to resume
    development.)

0.16
    Add TiVo HD XL to the supported list.

0.15
    Make it compatible with Python 2.3; suppress the console window on
    Macs.

0.14
    Adapt CC button for 9.4; pop up error on connection failure.

0.13
    Autoconnect was failing on single-TiVo networks.

0.12
    Delay between commands to address crashing TiVos; prompt for address
    if autodetect fails; minor fixes.

0.11
    Autodetect TiVos; fix -h.

0.10
    Fixes for numeric keypad in Tkinter on some platforms.

0.9
    Shortcuts from the HME simulator, fix for Gtk in Windows, CLEAR at
    end of SPS30 and Clock, support numeric keypad.

0.8
    More command-line options, fixes for keyboard shortcuts.

0.7
    Landscape mode.

0.6
    Keyboard shortcuts.

0.5
    Text entry.

0.4
    CC, SPS30, Clock.

0.3
    Show status messages; allow address on command line; minor layout
    changes.

0.2
    Added Tkinter support.
